---
layout: post
title: "The Schlaepfer Family Murder"
author: "Kayla Carlson"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: mountains.jpg
---

# The Schlaepfer Family Murder
On the 20th of May in 1992, South Auckland was shocked by the brutal act of one farmer against his own family. This mans name was Brian Schlaepfer and he took 6 innocent lives from this world, or 7 lives total if you include him. The victims include his wife, 3 sons, a daughter-in-law and a grandson. After the violence occured, Brian then wandered into the near by woods of his property and killed himself. 

## The Schlaepfer Family
The Schlaepfer family name become well known around town after they settled in the town of Paerata. They quickly became well liked within the community. A local road was named after them and still exsits to this day. This road sits around 6km away from the families orginal farm site. Not much is known about Brian Schlaepfers early life however he was born on September 07, 1927 and by 1992 he was 64 years of age and running the family farm. He married a women named Jocelyn who was born November 21, 1932. During their marriage they had 3 sons. Peter Wayne Schlaepfer was the eldest and he was born on the 11 of November, 1952. There are less details known about the 2 other sons however the middle son, Karl Percival Schlaepfer was born in 1959 and the youngest son, Darrell Bryan Schlaepfer, was born in 1961. Brian was born into a family with a good name due to their good deeds in the surroundg community. However Brian continued to gather postive feelings towards his family with his own actions to help the small town. In 1964 a member of the Schlaepfer family along with an outside family donated  two hectares of land which was to be used by the local scouts. This land is located just off Ostrich Farm Road and is a mixture of native bush and large grass areas. After being donated the name was named Schlaepfer Park Scout Camp. The Schlaepfer family has helped the camp out immesly however Brian himself is credited on the camps website with connecting water to the campsite from his own bore. It has been said that he at one point was a volunter with the scouts as a scout master. The park is still in use today as a camp ground for the scouts, out door enthusiesta and as a wedding venue. Brian Schlaepfer also founded the local gliding club. It is no wonder eveyone in the local community held the Schlaepfer family in such high regards, they used their wealth and land to help. 

## The Farm
The Schlaepfer family settled down in Paerata in 1886, which is located just north of Pukekohe and 40 minutes outside of Auckland. The farm they ran was located on Ostrich Farm Road and was over 100 acres in size. The farm was mostly grassy plains however it hds wooded natural areas located on the fringes of the property. Three houses were built on the farm and were occupied by 12 people in total including Brian. The first house was lived in by Brian, his wife Jocelyn and their middle son Karl. The eldest son Peter lived in another home with his wife Hazel. They had 2 daughters, Kerry and Linda. Their son was named Aaron. The last house was lived in by Darrell the youngest son. He lived there wth his de facto partner and their 2 children. Leadership of the farm was passed through the family and that is how Brian Schlaepfer came to be in charge. As Brian aged he reportedly suffered with deep depression and refused to get help at his family's request. This lead to some dobuts over his ability to run the farm efficently. According to reports, Peter and his wife Hazel then took it upon themselves to talk to other family members to convince them that Brian was to old to run the farm and they should be in charge. It was also rumored around town that Brian was unhappy with changing the farm from pasture into crops as this is how his family farm had run since the Schlaepfer family the farm in 1886. It's these factors combined with some unknown elements that lead to what happens next...

## Dawn of May 20, 1992
There are conflicting reports about what exactly caused Brian to tip over the edge on this cold morning but the most wwidely known and accepted theroy is that the mounting pressue for him to step down as the farm leader combined with an argument he was having with Jocelyn caused him to lose control. Sometime in the morning before 7:30am is when the entire ordeal occured. Of the 12 people who lived permentaly at the farm only 8 were present on the day. Kerry was having a sleep over at a friends houseand is is unknown why Darrell’s de facto partner and their two children were absent from the property that morning. Events that morning start with Brian grabbing a knife and stabbing his wife who is in their bedroom. Of all the ways to kill a person using a knife is considered a very personal murder method, when you stab someone you want to watch and feel them die. Obviously this would cause a comotion in the house, I mean how could you not hear soemthing strange. 

Karl lived with his parents and was in the same house was the next victim. Karl hears something unsual and gets out from his bed to investiage. While he makes his way to his parents room, Brian has gone for his trusty shot gun which he keeps in his bedroom, however he also used a .22-caliber rifle and another unidentifed gun. Jocelyn lays dead and Brain collects, loads and readys his weapon. Karl barley makes it to his bedroom door before Brian discharges the gun into his neck. 

Hazel at this point hears the common going on at the house and decides she needs to investiage the noises. She asks Linda and Aaron to stay in their house while she goes to see whats happening with grandma and grandpa. While this is happening Brian has left his own houes and made his way to the properties tool shed. Darrell was in the tool shed dealing with just general farm chores. Brian made short work of Darrell by firing into his neck and jaw. This gun shot is louyd enough that it draws Hazel's attention and she heads straight towards the tool shed, also heading towards her own death. Brian emerges from the tool shed and fires at Hazel. She is lucky or unlucky depending on wehop you talk to beacuse she is hit in the arm and chest howwever she is not killed instantly. While Brian had to reload, Hazel manages to stumble back into her house. Bleeding profusly and running complety on adreleince, shock and fear she gets to the kitchen and calls 111. The offical records state the call was made at 7:40am. So far Brain has killed 3 and injured 1 family member in the space of 10 minutes. Keep in mind they live on a rural farm that is 100's of acres large. No one for miles would be able to hear any of the commotion or gun shots. We can only hazard guesses as to how long it would have taken for the police to be notified if not for Hazel making it to thaty kitcen and placing the call. Hazel gets put through to a Constable Stuck, who she immedalt7y starts pleading with him for help. Brian had loaded his gun he made his wway into their home and for reasons that are unsure to anyone he iignores the kitcehen and makes his way to the children. Aaron was still in his bed when Brian approaches him. Reports differ as to how Aaron was killed. Some say he was shot 1 time in the stomach and chest, others say he was stabbed. Either way it is safe to say Aaron died a brutal death and did not deserve what happened to him. Linda whose bedroom was across the hall from her brothers couldnt see what was happening however she could hear the comotion, talking and finally the gun shots. This caused her to freak out, as im sure it would any small child, or adult for that fact. She did the second smartest and bravest thing she would do that day at that moment. She took to her cloest and hid, she stayed quiet and listned as Brian made his way into her room. He didn;t even attempt to look for her, a quick once over in her room was enough. He could not see or even hear Linda so Brian turned his attention to Hazel, as he knew exactly where she was. He could hear her talking and screaming downstairs in fear and pain to the officer on the phone. Brain once in the kitchen finished Hazel off. A single shot to her head. Constotablke Jeff Stuck on the other end of the phoneheard the entire ordeal. The phone hits the ground, however Brian does not bother to end the call or even pick up the phone. After he kills Hazel he makes his way back out to the farms tool shed. He waits for he eldest son to come back from farm chores and then he ambushed him and kill him with either a gun shot or a knife. 

Reports state that after this Brian went back to looking for Linda. He kneww she was home and tried called for her. At this stage Linda had moved from the cloest to under her bed. At some point after Brian has left the house Linda goes into her brother Aarons room and sees him either dead or in the process of dying. She then does the most brave and smart thing she did on the day by heading to the kthcen, passing her dead mother she collects the phone and continues the conversation with Constable Jeff Stuck. I wont write the entire transcript of the phone conversation but you can find bits and pieces online if your so inclind to look for it. The most haunting part of the call however goes like this: 

* Stuck: "What’s happening there, love?"
* Linda: "My granddad…."
* Stuck: "Your granddad…"
* Linda: "He’s shot my brother."
* Stuck: "Your granddad has shot your brother."
* Linda: "Yes, and I think he’s coming to shoot… he’s going to shoot me."
* Stuck: "And he’s going to shoot you now."
* Linda: "He’s looking for me."
* Stuck: "Listen, is Mum there? Can she come to the phone?"
* Linda: "No. Mummy’s dead. He shot her up her nose… she’s just lying there."

Linda under the instruction of Constable Jeff Stuck locks all the doors of the house, and barricade herself in one of the rooms using any furniture she could move herself. Linda told Constable Stuck her verion of the events that had happened. She could still hear talking and said it sounded like someone was trying to get back into the house. Constable Stuck did an amazing job to help Linda. At this stage Brian wanders off into the bush and kills hismelf with a single bullet. With his death the offical death toll of the day was seven. All the victims and their ages are listed in order:

1. Jocelyn Schlaepfer, 55 years old.
2. Karl Schlaepfer, 33 years old.
3. Darrell Schlaepfer, 31 years old. 
4. Aaron Schlaepfer, 11 years old.
5. Hazel Schlaepfer, 42 years old.
6. Peter Schlaepfer, 39 years old
7. Brian Schlaepfer, 64 years old. 

## Police responce
Constable Jeff Stuck stayed on the phone with Linda for 3+ hours while the police organized themselves and made a plan of attack. He would try and get information out of her as well as let her know important information about the police movements. AQccoridng to Constable Stuck when she started to realize she may have just lost her entire family he talked about her 3 pets cats, school interests, her ballet and jazz dancing, and about how her family had been to the movies the day before., to keep her calm and distratced. By 8am the armed ofenbders or AOS arrived on Ostrich Farm Road. sixty plus officers desended onto the road. They cordon the area off and had ambulances on stand by for wwhen it was demed safe to enter the property. The police hellicopter and Westpac helicopter did sweps of the area and keep an eye from the sky. AT this stage the police are still unaway of just how much blood had been spilt on the famr and that Brian had killed himself. The police have to assume poeple may still be alive inclduing a possible armed offender. Because of all the unknonw aspects of the farm and the situation thew police had to apprach the house with extreme caution. Linda remiand on the phone the entire time with Constable Stuck. They decied together that when the police raided her house they would use the safe word "rabbit" to let Linda know it was the police and safe to open the door. Linda sat in the bedroom barricade in until just after 11am when the police finally knocked on the door, ushered the safe wword and recovered the little girl shaken and scared but most importantly safe. After Linda was recovered the police split into teams and survyed the damage at the farm wwhile also loking for Brian Schlaepfer. Seven hours after the ordeal started the police finally located Brians body. He was found in a bush-covered gully about 50 yards from the houses. 

## Aftermath
Constable Jeff Stuck needs to be commened for his work on the day. He first did what he could to keep Hazel calm before her demise. Then he looked after Linda, keeping her distratated while helping thew police to oragnize the raid. To this day he still can not belive a crime like this occured in New Zealand and how brave Linda was, who at the time of the murders was only 9 years old. COnstable Stuck was quoated saying "She did more than we would want anybody to do … and performed a remarkable feat". To this say we cant be 100% sure what caused Brian Schlaepfer to snap. To this day there are still questions about his actions on the day. A note was found at the scene by police. They did not and still to this day ahve never made the contents of the not public. The only clue we got was when asked if it was a suicicxe not the police respnded "It could have taken that form”. All the victims of that day were burried in Heights Park Cemetery and you can visit their graves. Remarebly Brian Schlaepfer is burtied along side the 6 lifes he took so needlsy from this world. Years after the tradegy occured we got some small updates about what happened to Linda and Kerry Schlaepfer who have had to live on with the memory and family name haunting them everywhere they go. Kerry in the aftermath moved away from Paerata and persuded and career in teaching. Linda, the brave little girl has now grown up and has not publicly commented on anything. Through a close friend she let the press and interested parties know that she wishes to keep the past in the past and just wants to look towardsw her future. The last known information about Linda is that as of 2007 she had 1 young child, a partner and continued to live in Paerata.

## Final Thoughts
The story of the Schlaepfer Family Murder is a tragic and awful one. A once happy and thriving family destroyed within a 20 minute time frame by someone who they loved and trusted. Brain Schlaepfer was cleary distrubed and needed help, however he did not get that help and did the unthinkable. If you look in the right places you can still see the impact the Schlaepfer Family had on the small town of Paerata. Decades of hard work and community bulding can be destroiyed in an instant. Howwever I implore you, if you do come across one of the few rements of the Schlaepfer family left in that town, please dont think of that awful tragey. Think of Linda and Kerry Schlaepfer the survivers and think of the 6 who lost their lives. 

Refrences
http://www.crime.co.nz/c-files.aspx?ID=10
https://truecrimenz.com/2019/07/14/case-3-schlaepfer-family-murders-transcript/
https://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/news/article.cfm?c_id=1&objectid=10440545
https://www.apnews.com/af40ab8f57156201b32d44b7d11d09ce
https://murderpedia.org/male.S/s/schlaepfer-brian.htm
http://www.schlaepferpark.org/
